.\"-
.\"Copyright (c) 2020, Alexander Mishin
.\"All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\"modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\"* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
.\"  list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\"* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\"  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\"  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\"THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\"AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\"IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
.\"DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\"FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\"DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\"SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
.\"CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
.\"OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\"OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.Dd Aug 14, 2020
.Dt BH1750 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm bh1750
.Nd driver for the ambient light sensor bh1750
.Sh SYNOPSIS
To load the driver as a module at boot time, place the following line in
.Xr loader.conf 5 :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
bh1750_load="YES"
.Ed
.Sh HARDWARE
The current version of the
.Nm
driver supports the IC with one of the following compatible strings:
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
bh1750
.El
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
device driver provides support for the BH1750FVI - digital Ambient Light Sensor
IC with I2C bus interface.
.Pp
It provides both control for measurement and data readings of the digital values
from an illuminance analog input via
.Xr sysctl 8 :
.Bd -literal
dev.bh1750.<unit>.ready-time: 180090
dev.bh1750.<unit>.hres-mode: 1
dev.bh1750.<unit>.quality-lack: 50
dev.bh1750.<unit>.mtreg: 69
dev.bh1750.<unit>.illuminance: 84166
dev.bh1750.<unit>.sensitivity: 833
dev.bh1750.<unit>.polling-time: 2
dev.bh1750.<unit>.counts: 101
dev.bh1750.<unit>.connected: 1
dev.bh1750.<unit>.%parent: iicbus0
dev.bh1750.<unit>.%pnpinfo: name=bh1750@23 compat=bh1750
dev.bh1750.<unit>.%location: addr=0x46
dev.bh1750.<unit>.%driver: bh1750
dev.bh1750.<unit>.%desc: BH1750 Ambient Light Sensor module
.Ed
.Sh SYSCTL VARIABLES
The following variables are available:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Va dev.bh1750.<unit>.mtreg
MTreg value (default: 69). The measurement time register is used to increase a
measurement sensivity by increasing a measurment time;
.It Va dev.bh1750.<unit>.quality-lack
Lack of quality from 0 to 50 (default: 0), %. The reduced quality of a specific
IC requires an increase in measurement readiness time at the same sensivity;
.It Va dev.bh1750.<unit>.hres-mode
H-resolution mode. Allowed modes are 1 and 2;
.It Va dev.bh1750.<unit>.ready-time
Predicted measurement time, usec. Depends on MTReg value and increases by
quality lack percents;
.It Va dev.bh1750.<unit>.counts
Raw measurement data. The last measurement value stored in IC register;
.It Va dev.bh1750.<unit>.connected
Connection status of the device;
.It Va dev.bh1750.<unit>.sensitivity
A range for illuminance value changed per one count, mlx/counts. Depends on
MTReg value;
.It Va dev.bh1750.<unit>.polling-time
Time period for polling the sensor and updating the results by the kernel
driver. From 1 to 255 seconds;
.It Va dev.bh1750.<unit>.illuminance
Light intensity value for measured counts, mlx.
.El
.Sh FDT CONFIGURATION
On an
.Xr fdt 4
based system, a
.Nm
device is defined as a slave device subnode of the i2c bus controller node.
.Pp
The following properties are required in the
.Nm
device subnode:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Va compatible
Must be "bh1750".
.It Va reg
I2c slave address of device.
.El
.Ss Example of adding a sensor with an overlay
.Bd -unfilled -offset indent
/dts-v1/;
/plugin/;

/ {
    compatible = "allwinner,sun8i-h3";
};

&i2c0 {
    bh1750: bh1750@23 {
        compatible = "bh1750";
        #address-cells = <1>;
        #size-cells = <0>;
        mtreg = <0x45>;     //up to <0xfe> for best sensivity
        reg = <0x23>;       //or <0x5c>, see datasheet
        quality-lack = <0>; //up to <50> if IC quality is worst (optional)
        polling-time = <5>; //up to 255 sec (optional)
        status = "okay";
    };
};
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sysctl 8 ,
.Xr loader.conf 5 ,
.Xr fdt 4
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
device driver was written by
.An Alexander Mishin Aq Mt mishin@mh.net.ru .
